docs: add bitbucket webhook receiver docs (#4414)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/80-webhook-receivers/bitbucket/index.md

---
sidebar_label: Bitbucket
---

# The Bitbucket Webhook Receiver

The Bitbucket Webhook Receiver will respond to `repo:push` events originating from
Bitbucket repositories.

> In response to a `repo:push` event, the receiver "refreshes" `Warehouse's` subscribed to the Bitbucket repository from which the event originated.

Reviewer: Please respect the 80 character soft limit on line length wherever possible.

:::info
"Refreshing" a `Warehouse` resource means enqueuing it for immediate
reconciliation by the Kargo controller, which will execute the discovery of
new artifacts from all repositories to which that `Warehouse` subscribes.
:::

## Configuring the Receiver

The Bitbucket webhook receiver will need to reference a Kubernetes `Secret` with a
`secret` key in its data map. This [shared
secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_secret) will be used by Bitbucket to
sign requests. The receiver will use it to authenticate those requests by
verifying their signatures.

:::note
The following command is suggested for generating a complex secret:

```shell
openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d '=+/' | head -c 32
```
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: bb-wh-secret
    namespace: kargo-demo
stringData:
    secret: <your-secret-here>
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  webhookReceivers: 
    - name: bb-wh-receiver
      bitbucket:
        secretRef:

>           name: bb-wh-secret

Reviewer: This YAML is not formatted correctly. Please fix.

        name: bb-wh-secret
```

## Retrieving the Receiver's URL

Kargo will generate a hard-to-guess URL from the configuration. We can obtain 
this URL using the following command:

```
kubectl \
    get projectconfigs \
    kargo-demo \
    -n kargo-demo \
    -o=jsonpath='{.status.webhookReceivers}'
```

## Registering with Bitbucket

> 1. Navigate to `https://bitbucket.org/<workspace>/<repository_name>/admin/webhooks` where `<workspace>` has been replaced with your Bitbucket workspace for which you are an administrator and `<repository_name>` has been replaced with the name of a repository belonging to that workspace.

Reviewer 2: Please adhere to 80 character wide lines throughout the document.

1. Click the <Hlt>Add webhook</Hlt> button to create a webhook for the repository.

1. Complete the <Hlt>Add new webhook</Hlt> form:
   
   1. Enter a <Hlt>Title</Hlt> with a short description.
   
   1. Set <Hlt>URL</Hlt> to the URL we [retriveved
      earlier](#retrieving-the-receivers-url).

>    1. (Recommended) Set the <Hlt>Secret</Hlt> field to the value we assigned the
>   `secret` key from the [Configuring the Receiver](#configuring-the-receiver)
>   step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. Set <Hlt>Secret</Hlt> to the value previously assigned to the secret key of the Secret referenced by the [webhook receiver's configuration](https://main.docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/webhook-receivers/github/#configuring-the-receiver).
```

    secret value generated by Bitbucket as the `secret` key described in the [Configuring the Receiver](#configuring-the-receiver) section.

>     :::.

Reviewer: This creates a chicken-and-egg problem.

The value of the secret is used in generating the receiver's URL.

If user's use the Bitbucket UI to generate the secret and _then_ go back and do the receiver configuration, the URL will change and they will need to revisit the previous step.

Just avoid this with a note telling users not to use the generate secret button.

   
   1. (Optional) If you're using a self-signed certificate and want to disable certificate verification, select <Hlt>Skip certificate verification</Hlt>.
   
   :::note
   It is recommended to not disable certificate validation since disabling certificate validation makes your vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks regardless of whether certificates are self-signed or CA-signed.

>    :::

Reviewer: I would just not mention this.

I'm sick of telling users this is a bad thing.

The default (unchecked) is sensible.

Let's just not bring it up.

>    2. By default, the trigger for the Bitbucket webhook is a repository push, as demonstrated by the **Repository push** field.

Reviewer: Enumerated steps should all be _imperatives_. This isn't an instruction of any kind. It is supplemental information. It shouldn't be a step. It should be a note note box or something, if it's truly needed at all.

   1. By default, the trigger for the Bitbucket webhook is a repository push, as demonstrated by the **Repository push** field.

   1. Click <Hlt>Save</Hlt>.

    ![Step 3](./img/01.png "Create New Webhook")

1. Verify that the webhook appears under <Hlt>Repository hook</Hlt>.. 
   
   1. Click on <Hlt>View requests</Hlt> under <Hlt>Actions</Hlt>
   

>    2. In the <Hlt> View request logs </Hlt> page, Click on <Hlt>Enable History</Hlt>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. In the <Hlt>View request logs</Hlt> page, click on <Hlt>Enable History</Hlt>.
```

> 1. After you entered all the necessary information for your webhook, click <Hlt>Save</Hlt>.

Reviewer: In a sequence of _ordered steps_, you don't need to say things like "after."

```suggestion
1. Click <Hlt>Save</Hlt>.
```

> 1. Once the webhook has been registered, it'll be visible under <Hlt>Repository hook</Hlt>. 

Reviewer: This is not an imperative. Figure out how to reword it so it is.

   
   ![Step 4](./img/02.png "Enabled history")

> 1. Verify connectivity: To test the connectivity, push your changes to the Bitbucket repository that the Warehouse is subscribed to. Once the changes have been pushed, the <Hlt>Request details</Hlt> page will indicate that a successful response was returned.

Reviewer 2: See comments here: https://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/4420#discussion_r2157470760

Author: Do you want to exclude this? I see the GitHub webhook docs has explained it nicely. 
http://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/4411/files#diff-e0f962035784d658cde677bb811c1faab69fc030627ae116997d8ce80a5a4b4fR152

  ![Step 5](./img/03.png "Request details")

When these steps are complete, the repository will send events to the webhook
receiver.

:::info
For additional information on configuring webhooks, refer directly to the
[Bitbucket Docs](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/manage-webhooks/).

> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::

```

verifying their signatures.

:::note
The following command is suggested for generating a complex secret:
```shell
openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d '=+/' | head -c 32
```
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: bb-wh-secret
    namespace: kargo-demo
stringData:
    secret: <your-secret-here>
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  webhookReceivers: 
    - name: bb-wh-receiver
      bitbucket:
        secretRef:
          name: bb-wh-secret
```

## Retrieving the Receiver's URL

Kargo will generate a hard-to-guess URL from the configuration. We can obtain 
this URL using the following command:

```
kubectl \
    get projectconfigs \
    kargo-demo \
    -n kargo-demo \
    -o=jsonpath='{.status.webhookReceivers}'
```

:::note
If your project config has configured multiple webhook receivers, it is recommended to describe the `ProjectConfig` resource in the kargo project namespace and copy the URL. For example, 
```
kubectl \
    describe projectconfig \
    my-project-config \
    -n kargo-project namespace
```
:::

## Registering with Bitbucket

> **Step 1:** Navigate to `https://bitbucket.org/<workspace>/<repository_name>/admin/webhooks` where `<workspace>` has been replaced with your Bitbucket workspace for which you are an administrator and `repository_name` has been replaced with the name of a repository belonging to that workspace.

Reviewer 2: I think these entries should be in list style?

**Step 2:** Click the <Hlt>Add webhook</Hlt> button to create a webhook for the repository.

> **Step 3:** On the <Hlt>Add new webhook</Hlt> page
> 1. Enter a <Hlt>Title</Hlt> with a short description.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Step 3:** On the <Hlt>Add new webhook</Hlt> page

1. Enter a <Hlt>Title</Hlt> with a short description.
```

If you start a list, always leave a newline in between. This makes the raw Markdown much easier to read.

   
1. Enter the <Hlt>URL</Hlt> that is retrieved from the [Retrieving the Receiver's URL](#retrieving-the-receivers-url) section.

1. (Recommended) Set the <Hlt>Secret</Hlt> field to the value we assigned the `secret` key 
  from the [Configuring the Receiver](#configuring-the-receiver) step.
    
    :::note

>     If you generate the secret directly from the Bitbucket UI, make sure to pass the
>     secret value generated by the Bitbucket to the `secret` key from the [Configuring the Receiver](#configuring-the-receiver) step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you generate the secret directly from the Bitbucket UI, make sure to configure the
    secret value generated by Bitbucket as the `secret` key described in the [Configuring the Receiver](#configuring-the-receiver) section.
```

    :::

> 1. (Optional) If you don't want the webhook to be active after you save, remove the checkmark from <Hlt>Active</Hlt>.

Reviewer 2: Is this worth documenting?

Reviewer 2: What value does it add?

   
1. (Optional) If you're using a self-signed certificate and want to disable certificate verification, select <Hlt>Skip certificate verification</Hlt>.
   
   :::note

>    It is recommended to not disable certificate validation because self-signed certificates are inherently not secure.

Reviewer 2: This statement is false.

Self-signed certificates themselves provide the same cryptographic protection (encryption, authentication) as CA-signed certificates.

The real security issue is completely disabling certificate validation, which removes all verification that you're connecting to the intended server. This makes you vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks regardless of whether certificates are self-signed or CA-signed.

   :::

> 1. If necessary, update the <Hlt>Triggers</Hlt> field. By default, the trigger for the Bitbucket webhook is a repository push, as demonstrated by the **Repository push** field.

Reviewer 2: When would this be necessary? We only support one event type.
